---
title: Week 12 Update
category: Draft
author: 🦊 The Fox
description: 🦊 The Fox has been unwell and ⚡ Shockk has been mired in code
---

Pass the tissues...

# 🦊 A Fox's Week

I've not had the best of weeks myself, whatever I had last week carried over into this week and got worse so it's monopolised most of my time. I did get a few things done though.

## Refine the Design
I had a skim though the [Design](https://shockkolate.github.io/polar-space/design) and tweaked some language and updated a few concepts to make them a bit more believable.  
I still have quite a few things I need to do though. Updated ship concepts, refining how weapons and utilities work, etc.  
I don't want to create too much [feature creep](/polar-space{% post_url 2019-08-16-01-featurecreep %}) though and generate a concept that is just way out of scope for what we want to do.  
The [Design](https://shockkolate.github.io/polar-space/design) is very much a living document, and will continue to be tweaked as development continues.

## Calling for Support

One of the things that I have going for me is a large(ish) group of colleagues that have unique talents and a love for space games. So I've been having a chat to designers of all kinds to see if what ideas and concepts they may bring to the table with them, or if they are interested in providing assets as development continues.

## Steam Builds

Like we mentioned [last week](/polar-space{% post_url 2019-09-29-01-Week-11 %}) we managed to get "Steamworks" integration working, this has also allowed us to distribute testing keys to people close to the development team. So far, all our tests have proved successful, or at least informative!

# ⚡ Shockk's Week

Content 2.0

## H2.1

Content 2.1

## H2.2

Content 2.2

# H3

Content 3.0

See you all next week!  
-🦊 The Fox, Project Manager  