---
title: Week 14 Update
category: Draft
author: 🦊 The Fox
description: The slow march towards a test release...
---

Slow but steady progress on all fronts!

# Debug Console Updates

⚡ Shockk has got to the point where the Debug Console is nearly completed. They'll be writing up a more in-depth technical blog about it at some point in the near future.  


# 64-Bit Windows

After a long time of putting it off, we now fully support building the game for 64-bit Windows. What does this mean in practice? Probably not a whole lot, but in general the game should use a tiny bit more memory than before but also be significantly more optimized in terms of CPU usage in certain tight areas of code.

The reason for this is actually really simple; x64 just has access  to a far greater number of CPU hardware registers, allowing the compiler to make greater use of these and avoid passing or allocating values on the stack in memory. Overall, we should see CPU usage decrease just slightly, everywhere.

# Patreon

We now have a Patreon for the game! We dedicated some time to thinking about what the scope of the Patreon should be, and we've fleshed out a bunch of tiers with what we believe to be proportional rewards.

We thought about pledging to offer game merchandise at some of the tiers, but at this stage we don't feel comfortable making such a commitment, as we don't even know what that would entail, what kind of merchandise we would even offer, etc. Maybe an idea for the future, but not right now!

Please do check out the Patreon page by clicking [Support Us](https://patreon.com/mileskjeller) at the top right of the site navigation bar. We're also setting up a Discord server for Patreons to join our community—check out the Patreon tiers for more information on this.

Thanks for sticking with us, and, until next week, 안녕히 계세요!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
