---
title: Randomness
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: A detailed overview of how we implement uniform randomness in our game engine.
---
Pseudo randomness is a remarkable concept—one that we rarely put a lot of thought into how it actually works. So, the purpose of this blog post is to detail everything that went into our custom pseudo random generation class and explain how exactly it works.

# Background

When we talk about random generation, we aren't just talking about generating numbers from 0 to 1 or even from -2 to 17. We're talking about more complex generation like points on the surface of a sphere, points within the area of a circle/disc, and more.

Up until very recently, our game engine used the random functionality available in GLM whenever we needed any randomness. This worked well for ages, but we recently realized that Spacegame actually has a few extra requirements on random number generation that GLM can't give us.

1. We need our random number generation to be predictable.
2. We need to maintain and advance discrete random generation states.
3. We need strong performance!

Let's take a look at why we need these guarantees, why GLM can't provide them, and how our new random generation class provides them.

# Predictability

For a multiplayer game with random elements, there are two ways to keep everything in sync across the server and clients.

1. Do random generation on the server and transfer everything across to clients.
2. Do random generation on the server and clients, having the server transfer the random seed across to clients.

Option 1 is kind of a non-starter as the complexity and bandwidth required to do this increases linearly as the number of things we're generating increases, so option 2 is the most optimal for us in every way. However, this comes with the caveat that the random generation algorithm we're using has to be identical and consistent across whatever platform, computer, etc, the game is running on.

GLM's random generation functions happen to use the C `rand` function, which gives us absolutely zero guarantees about what algorithm is used or anything like that. We thought about forking GLM and stripping out the `rand` stuff, replacing it with custom code, but that's too much work and too high maintenance to update our fork from upstream.

What we decided on was to write a completely new `random` class for our game engine, based around C++'s random engine classes—in particular, one of linear congruential, Mersenne twister, and subtract-with-carry. Currently we're using Mersenne twister but we're prety confident that we'll be able to use subtract-with-carry for greater performance without a noticeable loss in quality of randomness. Either way, all of these engine have one thing in common—they're all well-defined in how their algorithm should be written. This means we can use them across different platforms, be it Windows, macOS, Steam OS + Linux, BBC Micro(?), etc, and they'll always dump out the same result given the same random seed.

# Independence

# Performance
